                                                                                    Deadline-1

                                                                    Ansh Varshney(2022083),Dhawal Garg(2022160),
                                                                    Prakhar Agrawal(2022361),Suhani Kalyani(2022511)

                                                                      Project Scope & Business Requirements


                                              ● Introduction
  
                                                Our project aims to establish and operate EzBuy, an online retail store offering a
                                                diverse range of daily use products. The focus is on bringing all the stakeholders
                                                on a common platform and providing a smooth and easy-to-use experience for
                                                the customers. The platform offers a wide array of products including groceries,
                                                household items, stationary, etc.

                                              ● StakeHolders

                                                1. Customer-A customer can freely browse the site, view products, and explore
                                                features and order products.
                                                2. Vendor-It is the entity that is responsible for supplying items to the customers.
                                                They ensure that the inventory is well-stocked with the desired number of
                                                required products and provide accurate and timely deliveries to the customers.
                                                3. Delivery agency-The delivery agency is responsible for providing delivery agents
                                                to the company who are responsible for delivery of orders from the nearest store
                                                to the customers’ specified delivery locations.
                                                4. DataBase Manager- The company/ business owner manages the ecommerce
                                                platform and can estimate the business statistics (profits, losses, total revenue
                                                etc.) for the website.

                                              ● Functionalities

                                                1. Customer-
                                                ● Customers can browse the products available in the store. This does not
                                                require any log in/sign up.
                                                ● Customers can add items to a shopping cart without logging in,associated
                                                with their session until the browser is closed or cookies are cleared.At
                                                checkout,they are prompted to login/ sign up.
                                                ● While signing up, the customer will have to enter details: name, address,
                                                phone number, email, set password etc. Post this, the database will assign
                                                each customer a unique id internally. To login, the customer will have to
                                                enter their email and password.
                                                ● There are two types of subscriptions: Normal & Premium. Premium
                                                customers can enjoy special offers and reduced delivery charges;
                                                subscription incurs an associated cost.
                                                ● The platform will offer secure and convenient payment options to the
                                                customers, integrating with various payment gateways to accept credit
                                                cards, digital wallets, and other forms of online payment.
                                                ● Registered customers can view previous order history and track current
                                                order status. They will also be notified about order tracking updates.
                                                ● Customers can review purchased products on the website. Each product
                                                would be assigned a star rating based on these reviews.
                                                ● Customers can return/replace products (if returnable) if the product is
                                                faulty. The customer can avail the customer care services also if needed.
                                                
                                                2. Vendor-
                                                ● Vendors are responsible for ensuring timely replenishment of inventory.
                                                ● The vendor also monitors inventory turnover and conducts regular audits
                                                to enhance overall operational efficiency of the store.
                                                ● The vendor has to decide the prices of the products supplied. Vendors
                                                would also be responsible for uploading the descriptions and images of
                                                the products supplied by them.
                                                ● When a customer places an order, the vendor processes the order by
                                                picking the items from its inventory, preparing them for delivery and
                                                coordinating with the delivery agent for timely pickup.
                                                
                                                3. Delivery Agency-
                                                ● The delivery agency will provide delivery agents to the company. The
                                                agency will also provide the delivery agent’s details which includes their
                                                name, phone number, identity proof.
                                                ● The delivery agents are responsible for verifying the order details,
                                                ensuring that the correct items are collected and delivered to the right
                                                customer.
                                                ● Customers’ contact details are shared with the delivery agent for smooth
                                                communication and providing them updates on the delivery status,
                                                instructions, etc.
                                                
                                                4. Database Manager-
                                                ● The company managing the platform can view the total revenue generated
                                                in a day and average profits/losses endured in a year.
                                                ● Database Manager can view the total count of customers, items, delivery
                                                persons, inventory products, etc.
                                                ● Database managers have access to comprehensive buying and selling
                                                histories,each identifiable by unique IDs,facilitating efficient tracking and
                                                analysis of transactions.
                                                ● The E-commerce platform will have items segregated into relevant
                                                categories (i.e. groceries, stationery items etc.).
                                                ● Database managers can add/remove/view discounts and offers given to
                                                the customers on various products. Premium members would be able to
                                                purchase at reduced prices.

                                              ● Tech Stack
                                                
                                                1. MySql
                                                2. HTML
                                                3. CSS
                                                4. Python
                                                
                                              ● Contributions
                                                
                                                All members discussed their ideas, fostered collaboration and contributed
                                                equally.
